README.md, before:

# Domino Data Lab Java Client

[![Maven](https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/com.ksmpartners/domino-java-client.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/ksmpartners/domino-java-client/)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/ksmpartners/domino-java-client?style=for-the-badge&logo=mit)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Java CI with Maven](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/ksmpartners/domino-java-client/build.yml?branch=main&logo=GitHub&style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/ksmpartners/domino-java-client/actions/workflows/build.yml)


[Domino Data Lab](https://www.dominodatalab.com/) Java Client is a library that wrappers the REST API calls for Domino using a Java native HTTP client.

# Requirements

To use this library you will need the following:

- JDK 11+
- Domino API Key to an active Domino instance

# Usage

The library is available on Maven Central for use in Maven/Gradle/Ivy etc.

**Apache Maven (javax):**
```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.ksmpartners</groupId>
    <artifactId>domino-java-client</artifactId>
    <version>${domino.version}</version>
</dependency>
```

**Apache Maven (jakarta):**
```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.ksmpartners</groupId>
    <artifactId>domino-java-client</artifactId>
    <version>${domino.version}</version>
    <classifier>jakarta</classifier>
</dependency>
```

**Gradle:**
```groovy
implementation group: 'com.ksmpartners', name: 'domino-java-client', version: '${domino.version}'
```

**Example:**
Using the library is simple, you just need a Domino API Key and URL.

```java
import com.dominodatalab.api.invoker.ApiClient;
import com.dominodatalab.api.invoker.ApiException;
import com.dominodatalab.api.model.DominoCommonUserPerson;
import com.dominodatalab.api.rest.UsersApi;
import com.dominodatalab.client.DominoApiClient;
import com.fasterxml.jackson.core.JsonProcessingException;
import com.fasterxml.jackson.databind.ObjectMapper;

public class DominoTest {

    private static final String API_URL = "https://domino.cloud.com/v4";
    private static final String API_KEY = "74b86eaa8c3e8310748de7714926b0b6a3866d8eb8c493fdf2d8fed7a520b842";

    public static void main(String... args) {
        try {
            // initialize client with key
            final ApiClient client = DominoApiClient.createApiClient();
            client.updateBaseUri(API_URL);
            client.setRequestInterceptor(builder -> builder.setHeader("X-Domino-Api-Key", API_KEY));

            // call the get current user API
            UsersApi api = new UsersApi(client);
            DominoCommonUserPerson user = api.getCurrentUser();

            // print response as JSON
            ObjectMapper mapper = DominoApiClient.createDefaultObjectMapper();
            String result = mapper.writerWithDefaultPrettyPrinter().writeValueAsString(user);
            System.out.println(result);
        } catch (ApiException | JsonProcessingException e) {
            e.printStackTrace();
        }
    }
}
```

**Resulting JSON output:**

```json
{
  "firstName": "Homer",
  "lastName": "Simpson",
  "fullName": "Homer Simpson",
  "id": "6124ffbfa7db86282dde302a",
  "userName": "hs12345",
  "email": "homer.simpson@springfield.org"
}
```

# Build and Test

Build the project with Apache Maven:

```shell
$ mvn clean package
```

Install it to your local Maven repository with:

```shell
$ mvn install
```

# Release

- Run `mvn versions:set -DgenerateBackupPoms=false -DnewVersion=5.5.1` to update all modules versions
- Commit and push the changes to GitHub
- In GitHub create a new release titled `5.5.1` to tag this release
- Run `mvn clean deploy -Prelease` to push to Maven Central

(Replace `5.5.1` in the steps above with the actual SEMVER release number.)

# "Slim" Domino API
This is a subset of the v4 API currently used by KSM. The endpoints used are listed in `src/conf/domino-internal-api-usage.csv`. To (re)create the slim openapi spec:
- Copy the `openapi`, `tags`, `info`, `security`, and `servers` top-level sections from the `domino-openapi.json` into the new spec file
- For each endpoint listed in the CSV:
  - Copy the definition from the `paths` section of `domino-openapi.json`
  - For each schema/response ref listed in the `requestBody` (if applicable) and/or `responses` sections of the endpoint definition:
    - Copy the schema/response definition from `components/schemas` or `components/responses` in `domino-openapi.json`
    - Copy any other nested definitions referenced in the schema
- Run `mvn compile` to ensure the slim spec file is valid

# License

Licensed under the [MIT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MIT_License) license.

`SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT`

# Copyright

Domino and Domino Data Lab are © 2023 Domino Data Lab, Inc. Made in San Francisco.

Commit message:

Add slim-api.json generation script (#107)
* Add methods that were extended for file support to usage CSV

* Add generate-slim-api.py

* Add securitySchemes to components from internal spec

* Add endpoints in slim-api.json missing from CSV

* Commit new generated changes

* Update README.md for new workflow

* Add assertion messages for endpoints or components that are not in internal spec

* Use KeyError instead of assert

README.md, after:

# Domino Data Lab Java Client

[![Maven](https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/com.ksmpartners/domino-java-client.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/ksmpartners/domino-java-client/)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/ksmpartners/domino-java-client?style=for-the-badge&logo=mit)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Java CI with Maven](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/ksmpartners/domino-java-client/build.yml?branch=main&logo=GitHub&style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/ksmpartners/domino-java-client/actions/workflows/build.yml)


[Domino Data Lab](https://www.dominodatalab.com/) Java Client is a library that wrappers the REST API calls for Domino using a Java native HTTP client.

# Requirements

To use this library you will need the following:

- JDK 11+
- Domino API Key to an active Domino instance

# Usage

The library is available on Maven Central for use in Maven/Gradle/Ivy etc.

**Apache Maven (javax):**
```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.ksmpartners</groupId>
    <artifactId>domino-java-client</artifactId>
    <version>${domino.version}</version>
</dependency>
```

**Apache Maven (jakarta):**
```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.ksmpartners</groupId>
    <artifactId>domino-java-client</artifactId>
    <version>${domino.version}</version>
    <classifier>jakarta</classifier>
</dependency>
```

**Gradle:**
```groovy
implementation group: 'com.ksmpartners', name: 'domino-java-client', version: '${domino.version}'
```

**Example:**
Using the library is simple, you just need a Domino API Key and URL.

```java
import com.dominodatalab.api.invoker.ApiClient;
import com.dominodatalab.api.invoker.ApiException;
import com.dominodatalab.api.model.DominoCommonUserPerson;
import com.dominodatalab.api.rest.UsersApi;
import com.dominodatalab.client.DominoApiClient;
import com.fasterxml.jackson.core.JsonProcessingException;
import com.fasterxml.jackson.databind.ObjectMapper;

public class DominoTest {

    private static final String API_URL = "https://domino.cloud.com/v4";
    private static final String API_KEY = "74b86eaa8c3e8310748de7714926b0b6a3866d8eb8c493fdf2d8fed7a520b842";

    public static void main(String... args) {
        try {
            // initialize client with key
            final ApiClient client = DominoApiClient.createApiClient();
            client.updateBaseUri(API_URL);
            client.setRequestInterceptor(builder -> builder.setHeader("X-Domino-Api-Key", API_KEY));

            // call the get current user API
            UsersApi api = new UsersApi(client);
            DominoCommonUserPerson user = api.getCurrentUser();

            // print response as JSON
            ObjectMapper mapper = DominoApiClient.createDefaultObjectMapper();
            String result = mapper.writerWithDefaultPrettyPrinter().writeValueAsString(user);
            System.out.println(result);
        } catch (ApiException | JsonProcessingException e) {
            e.printStackTrace();
        }
    }
}
```

**Resulting JSON output:**

```json
{
  "firstName": "Homer",
  "lastName": "Simpson",
  "fullName": "Homer Simpson",
  "id": "6124ffbfa7db86282dde302a",
  "userName": "hs12345",
  "email": "homer.simpson@springfield.org"
}
```

# Build and Test

Build the project with Apache Maven:

```shell
$ mvn clean package
```

Install it to your local Maven repository with:

```shell
$ mvn install
```

# Release

- Run `mvn versions:set -DgenerateBackupPoms=false -DnewVersion=5.5.1` to update all modules versions
- Commit and push the changes to GitHub
- In GitHub create a new release titled `5.5.1` to tag this release
- Run `mvn clean deploy -Prelease` to push to Maven Central

(Replace `5.5.1` in the steps above with the actual SEMVER release number.)

# "Slim" Domino API
This is a subset of the v4 API currently used by KSM. The endpoints used are listed in `src/conf/domino-internal-api-usage.csv`. The `src/conf/slim-api.json` file is created from copying from the `src/conf/domino-openapi.json` file and filtering for the endpoints listed in the CSV. This can be regenerated and compiled using the following commands:
- Run `./src/conf/generate-slim-api.py > ./src/conf/slim-api.json` to update the slim spec file from the CSV and source spec
- Run `mvn compile` to ensure the slim spec file is valid

# License

Licensed under the [MIT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MIT_License) license.

`SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT`

# Copyright

Domino and Domino Data Lab are © 2023 Domino Data Lab, Inc. Made in San Francisco.
